[DOCS] How to introspect and partition a files based data store (#3464)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/guides/validation/how_to_validate_data_by_running_a_checkpoint.md

---
title: How to validate your data using a Checkpoint
---

import Prerequisites from '../../guides/connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This guide will help you validate your data by running a Checkpoint.

> As stated in [Validate your data using a Checkpoint](../../tutorials/getting_started/validate_your_data.md), the best way

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As stated in the Getting Started Tutorial ["Validate your data using a Checkpoint"](../../tutorials/getting_started/validate_your_data.md), the best way
```

Author: Resolved with @anthonyburdi

to validate data in production with Great Expectations is using a [Checkpoint](../../reference/checkpoints_and_actions).

> The advantages of a [Checkpoint](../../reference/checkpoints_and_actions) are ease of use, while combining the existing
> - [Expectation Suites](../../reference/expectations/expectations),
> - [DataConnectors](../../tutorials/getting_started/connect_to_data.md),
> - [BatchRequests](../../reference/datasources#Batches), and
> - [Validation Actions](../../reference/checkpoints_and_actions.md)
> in order to set up and perform the validation.  Otherwise, configuring these validation parameters would have to be done

Reviewer: Just a nitpicky stylistic suggestion
```suggestion
The advantages of a [Checkpoint](../../reference/checkpoints_and_actions) are ease of use, by combining the existing configuration in order to set up and perform the validation:

- [Expectation Suites](../../reference/expectations/expectations)
- [DataConnectors](../../tutorials/getting_started/connect_to_data.md)
- [BatchRequests](../../reference/datasources#Batches)
- [Validation Actions](../../reference/checkpoints_and_actions.md)

Otherwise, configuring these validation parameters would have to be done
```

Author: @anthonyburdi This looks like the previous PR got merged, even though it was not supposed to yet.  I will have to address somehow.  Thanks.

Author: Fixed!

</Prerequisites>

You can run the Checkpoint from the CLI in a Terminal shell or using Python.

<Tabs
  groupId="terminal-or-python"
  defaultValue='terminal'
  values={[
  {label: 'Terminal', value:'terminal'},
  {label: 'Python', value:'python'},
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="terminal">

Steps
-----

1. Checkpoints can be run like applications from the command line by running:

```bash
great_expectations --v3-api checkpoint run my_checkpoint
Validation failed!
```

2. Next, observe the output which will tell you if all validations passed or failed.

Additional notes
----------------

This command will return posix status codes and print messages as follows:

    +-------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------------+
    | **Situation**                 | **Return code** | **Message**           |
    +-------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------------+
    | all validations passed        | 0               | Validation succeeded! |
    +-------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------------+
    | one or more validation failed | 1               | Validation failed!    |

>     +-------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------------+

Reviewer: ❤️

from great_expectations.data_context import DataContext

data_context: DataContext = DataContext(
    context_root_dir="/path/to/great_expectations"
)

result: CheckpointResult = data_context.run_checkpoint(
    checkpoint_name="my_checkpoint",
    batch_request=None,
    run_name=None,
)

if not result["success"]:
    print("Validation failed!")
    sys.exit(1)

print("Validation succeeded!")
sys.exit(0)
```

4. This Python script can then be invoked directly using Python:
```python
python great_expectations/uncommitted/run_my_checkpoint.py
```
Alternatively, the above Python code can be embedded in your pipeline.

## Additional Notes

- Other arguments to the `DataContext.run_checkpoint()` method may be required, depending on the amount and specifics of
the Checkpoint configuration previously saved in the configuration file of the Checkpoint with the corresponding `name`.
- The dynamically specified Checkpoint configuration, provided to the runtime as arguments to `DataContext.run_checkpoint()`
must complement the settings in the Checkpoint configuration file so as to comprise a properly and sufficiently
configured Checkpoint with the given `name`.

> - Please see [How to configure a new Checkpoint using test_yaml_config](./checkpoints/how_to_configure_a_new_checkpoint_using_test_yaml_config.md) for more Checkpoint configuration examples (including the convenient templating mechanism) and `DataContext.run_checkpoint()` invocation options.

Reviewer: ❤️

---

> title: How to validate data by running a Checkpoint

Reviewer 2: Why is this file changed in this PR? This seems like a separate set of edits...

Author: @abegong I got feedback to keep titles in sync with the file name of the document, so I felt that it was a good suggestion and updated the document title accordingly.  Thanks.
